pages/what_is_git.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: What is Git?
permalink: /what_is_git.html
---

## Version control system

Git is an open-source version control system which helps you to keep your work well-structured and save. It notices conflicts between changes made by different people and synchronizes files between different computers. 

## Repositories

Git works with repositories. A repository consists of two parts: (1) your project, meaning your files and directories that you create and edit directly; and (2) the extra information that Git records about the project’s history.

 In case of GitHub Classroom each of your students will get their own repository without affecting the repositories of other students.

## Template Repositories

You can make an existing repository a template, so you and others can generate new repositories with the same directory structure, branches, and files. Template repositories are an easy way to reuse your course material for another semester. 
For more information on GitHub Template Repositories and how to create one see: [Template Repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-template-repository)

## GitHub

GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service for Git repositories. Anyone can sign up and create a GitHub account for free. You can create private and public repositories, create organizations or become a member in one.

## GitHub organization

A GitHub organization is an umbrella account on GitHub where you can store all your repositories. The organization you choose for your classroom is the place where all of your student’s assignment repositories will live. Each student will have their own assignment repository.

Commit message:

comments on student git part

pages/what_is_git.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: What is Git?
permalink: /what_is_git.html
---

## Version control system

Git is an open-source version control system which helps you keep your work well-structured and safe. It notices conflicts between changes made by different people and synchronizes files between different computers.

> Bit of explanation about how it works (i.e., command line, graphical user interfaces, what do the commands look like etc.)

## Repositories

Git works with repositories. A repository consists of two parts: (1) your project, meaning your files and directories that you create and edit directly; and (2) the extra information that Git records about the project’s history.

With GitHub Classroom each of your students will get their own repository without affecting the repositories of other students.

> Few sentences about how commits work to track changes.

## Template Repositories

You can make an existing repository a template, so you and others can generate new repositories with the same directory structure, branches, and files. Template repositories are an easy way to reuse your course material for another semester. 
For more information on GitHub Template Repositories and how to create one see: [Template Repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/creating-a-template-repository).

> Is this the student-specific part? Because this is quite specific functionality (for GitHub Classroom for example) and not that commonly used.

## GitHub

[GitHub](https://www.github.com/) is a cloud-based hosting service for Git repositories. Anyone can sign up and create a GitHub account for free. You can create private and public repositories, create organizations or become a member in one.

## GitHub organization

A GitHub organization is an umbrella account on GitHub where you can store all your repositories. The organization you choose for your classroom is the place where all of your student’s assignment repositories will live. Each student will have their own assignment repository.

> Add pointer to docs for this.
